(ii) True seed/ micro The true seed/micro-tubers (in vitro) of The above condition shall not Import subject to prior approval of
tubers (in vitro) of potato are obtained from plants tested and apply. Department of Agriculture,
potato/ tissue- certified free from viruses and viroids of Cooperation and Farmers Welfare
cultured plants potato and other tuber bearing Solanaceous in the Ministry of Agriculture.
plant species. (Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
07th June, 2024)
11. Rice (Oryza sativa) (i) Seeds for sowing (i) Freedom from: Seed soaking overnight and hot (a) Approval of Department of
(a) Granary weevil (Sitophilus water treatment at 520C for 10 Agriculture, Cooperation and
granarius) minutes. Farmers Welfare, Ministry of
(b) Sheath brown rot (Pseudomonas Agriculture as per provisions of
fuscovaginae) New Policy on Seed
(c) Seedling rot (Pseudomonas glumae) Development (NPSD), 1988.
(d) Bacterial halo blight (Pseudomonas (b) Subject to the recommendation,
syringae pv. Oryzae supervision, monitoring and
(e) Quarantine Weed Seeds testing by Director, NBPGR,
New Delhi/Director, Directorate
of Rice Research, Hyderabad.
12. Rubber Seed/ Saplings/ (i) Freedom from: (i) Post-entry quarantine for a Subject to the recommendation,
(Hevea spp.) Bud wood. (a) South American leaf blight (SALB) period of one year. supervision, monitoring and testing
(Microcyclus ulei syn. Dothidella (ii) The consignment of seed by the Director, Rubber Institute,
ulei) and other planting material Kottayam, (Kerala).
(b) Shot hole borer (Xyleborus shall be treated with suitable
ferrugineus) systemic fungicide prior to
dispatch of the consignment
at the country of origin and
the treatment shall be
endorsed on phytosanitary
certificate.
13. Sugarcane (i) Cuttings of setts Freedom from: (i) Growing of consignment Subject to the recommendation,
(Saccharum spp.) for planting (a) Fiji virus of sugarcane under Post entry quarantine supervision, monitoring and testing
(b) Gummosis (Xanthomonas for a period of one year. by Director, Sugarcane Breeding
vasculorum) (ii) Hot water treatment of Institute, Coimbatore (Tamil
(c) Sugarcane white leaf dormant sets at 520C for 20 Nadu).
(phytoplasmas) min. followed by dipping in
(d) Sereh systemic fungicide solutions
(e) Sugarcane downy mildew viz. Benlate at 0.2% just prior
(Peronosclerospora sacchari) to planting.
(f) Mottled stripe (Pseudomonas (iii) All packages and packing
rubrisubalbicans) material shall be disposed off
(g) Sugarcane viruses viz. bacilliform, by burning.
mild mosaic, mosaic & streak
(h) American sugarcane borer
(Diatraea saccharalis)
56