(iii) Oak (Quercus (i) Seeds/ Plants Freedom from: (i) Post-entry quarantine for a Subject to the recommendation,
spp.) (a) Oak wilt (Ceratocystis fagacearum) period of one year. supervision, monitoring and testing
(b) Oak bark beetles (ii) Fumigation of planting by Director, Forest Research
(Pseudopityophthorus spp.) material prior to dispatch at Institute, Dehradun or any other
(c) Seed Bruchids (Bruchidius spp.) the country of origin and research institute under Indian
the treatment shall be
Council of Forestry Research and
endorsed on the
Education.
phytosaniary certificate
(iv) Pine (Pinus (i) Seeds/ Plants Freedom from: i) Post-entry quarantine for a Subject to the recommendation,
spp.) and other (a) Pine rusts (Stalactiform blister rust period of one year. supervision, monitoring and testing
coniferous species (Cronartium coleosporioides), ii) Fumigation of planting by Director, Forest Research
Comandra blister rust (C. material prior to dispatch at Institute, Dehradun or any other
comandrae), sweet fern blister rust the country of origin and the research institute under Indian
(C. comptoniae); Southern fusiform treatment shall be endorsed Council of Forestry Research and
rust (C. fusiforme)) on the phytosanitary Education.
(b) Western gall rust (Endocronartium certificate.
harknessii)
(c) Brown spot needle blight
(Mycosphaerella dearnesii, syn.
Scirrhia acicola)
(d) Seedling die-back and pitch canker
(Fusarium moniliformef.sp.
subglutinans).
(e) Needle cast (Lophodermium spp.)
(f) Pine wood nematode
(Bursaphelenchus xylophilus)
(g) Seed chalcid (Eurytoma sciromatis)
(h) Seed Bruchids (Bruchidius spp.)
(v) Poplar (i) Stem cuttings/ Freedom from: Post-entry quarantine for a Subject to the recommendation,
Populus spp.) Plants (a) Hypoxylon canker (Hypoxylon period of one year. supervision, monitoring and testing
mammatum) by Director, Forest Research
(b) Poplar rust (Melampsora medusae) Institute, Dehradun or any other
(c) Septoria canker of poplar research institute under Indian
(Mycosphaerella populorum, syn. Council of Forestry Research and
Septoria musiva) Education.
(d) Gummosis (Euitypa armeniacae)
(e) Poplar mosaic virus
(vi) Walnut (i) Seeds (nuts)/ Freedom from: Post-entry quarantine for a Subject to recommendation,
(Juglans spp.) Plants (a) Bacterial blight (Xanthomonas period of one year supervision, monitoring and
juglandis) testing by Director, Forest
(b) Bark canker (Erwinia nigrifluens) Research Institute, Dehradun or
(c) Gummosis (Euitypa armeniacae) any other research institute under
(d) Codling moth (Carpocapsa pomonella) Indian Council of Forestry Research
and Education.
54