SCHEDULE-V
[See clause 3 (3) (6) (7) and 10 and 11 (3)]
List of plants and plant materials restricted import permissible only with the recommendation of authorized institutions with
additional declarations and special conditions
S. Plant species/ Category of plants Additional declarations required to be Special conditions of Responsibility of authorized
No. variety & plant material incorporated into PSC import Institutions
1. Banana, Plantain (i) Rhizomes/ Freedom from: (i) Growing of imported Subject to the recommendation,
and Abaca (Musa Suckers (a) Moko wilt (Burkholderia consignment under post- supervision, monitoring and
spp.). solanacearum Race-2) entry quarantine for a testing by Director, National
(b) Black leaf streak (Mycosphaerella period of 9-12 months. Research Center on Banana,
fijiensis var. difformis) (ii) Import subject to prior Tiruchirappalli (Tamil Nadu).
(c) Cameroon marbling (Phytoplasmas) approval of Department of
(d) Rhizome rot (Erwinia chrysanthemi Agriculture, Cooperation
pv. paradisiaca) and Farmers Welfare in the
Ministry of Agriculture.
(e) Banana weevil (Hawaii)
(Omitted vide Gazette
(Cosmopolites pruinosus),
Notification S.O. 2221(E)
(f) Cane weevil (West Indies)
dated 07th June, 2024)
(Metamasius hemipterus),
(g) Banana weevil (East African),
(Temnoschoita nigroplagiata).
2. Cassava or tapioca (i) Stem Cuttings Freedom from: (i) Post-entry quarantine for a Subject to the recommendation,
(Manihot esculenta) (a) Super elongation (Sphaceloma period of one year. supervision, monitoring and
manihoticola) (ii) Hot water dipping of testing by Director, Central
(b) Bacterial leaf spot cuttings at 500C for 30 min. Tuber Crops Research Institute,
(Xanthomonascampestrispv. before planting. Sreekaryam (Kerala).
cassavae)
(c) Cassava bacterial blight
(Xanthomonas campestris pv.
manihotis) - American strains.
(d) Cassava viruses (viz. common
mosaic, brown streak, leaf vein
mosaic, red mottle and yellow vein
banding
(e) Cassava witches‟ broom
(phytoplasma)
(f) Shoot fly (Carpolonchaea chalybea)
(g) Mite (Mononychellus spp.)
(h) Thrip (Frankliniella willamsi)
50