(f) Leaf spot (Pseudomonas cichorii)
(g) Phloem necrosis (Phytomonas
leptovasorum)
(h) Coffee viruses (coffee ringspot, leaf
rugosity, leaf curl, leaf crinkle and
mosaic viruses)
(i) Coffee berry borers (Hypothenemus
hampei, Sophronica ventralis)
(j) Coffee thrips (Diarthrothrips coffeae)
(ii) Tissue cultured Certified that the tissue cultured plants The above condition shall not Same as above.
plants tested virus-free apply.
7. Cotton (Gossypium Seeds for sowing Freedom from: (i) The seed shall be given acid Subject to the recommendation,
spp.) (a) Witches broom (Collectotrichum delinting treatment at the supervision, monitoring and testing
gossypii var. cephalosporioides) country of origin prior to by Director, Central Cotton
(b) Bacterial blight (Xanthomonas shipment Research Institute, Nagpur
campestris pv. malvacearum (African (ii) The seed shall be (Maharashtra).
strain) fumigated with suitable
(c) (Anthonomus grandis& other fumigant at the country of
Anthonomus spp.) origin and treatment to be
(d) Seed bruchids (Amblycerus spp., endorsed on phytosanitary
Megacerus spp., Spermophagus spp.) certificate.
8. Forest plant species (i) Seeds/ Fruits/ Freedom from: Post-entry quarantine for a Subject to the recommendation,
(i) Chestnut Grafts and other Chestnut blight or canker (Cryphonectria period of one year. supervision, monitoring and testing
(Castanea spp.) planting material (Endothia) parasitica)-American strain by Director, Forest Research
Institute, Dehradun or any other
research institute under Indian
Council of Forestry Research and
Education.
(ii) Elm (Ulmus spp.) (i) Seeds/Plants Freedom from: (i) Post-entry quarantine for a Subject to the recommendation,
(a) Dutch elm disease (Ceratocystis ulmi) - period of one year. supervision, monitoring and testing
American and European strains (ii) Fumigation of planting by Director, Forest Research
(b) Elm mottle virus, material prior to dispatch Institute, Dehradun or any other
(c) Elm bark beetles (Scolytidae) at the country of origin and research institute under Indian
(d) White -banded elm leaf hopper the treatment shall be Council of Forestry Research and
(Scaphoidous luteolus)-Vector of Elm endorsed on the Education
phloem necrosis Phytosanitary certificate.
(e) Seed Bruchid (Bruchidius spp.)
53