5. Coconut (Cocos nucifera) and Seed nuts/ Seedlings/ Africa (Cameroon, Ghana, Nigeria, Due to incidence of destructive pests such as: Palm lethal
related species of Cocoideae Pollen/Tissue cultures Togo and Tanzania), North America yellowing (phytoplasma) andrelated strains, Cadang
etc. (Florida in USA, Mexico); Central cadang & Tinangaja (viroid), Lethal boll rot
America and Caribbean (Cayman (Marasmiellus cocophilus), Red ring
(Rhadinaphelenchus cocophilus (palmarum), South
Islands, Bahmas, Cuba, Dominican
American Palm weevil (Rhyncophorus palmarum), Leaf
Republic, Haiti, Jamaica) Philippines
minor (Promecotheca cumingi) and Palm kernel borer
and Gaum Brazil (Atlantic Coast),
(Pachymerus spp).
Trinidad,Tobago, Greneda, St.
Vincent, Barbados, Belize,
Honduras, Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Panama, Columbia, Venezuela and
Ecuador, Surinam (Dutch Guyana),
Sri Lanka.
6. Coffee (Coffea spp.) and related Beans (seeds) /Berries Africa and South America Due to incidence of destructive pests such as American
species of Rubiaceae (freshly harvested)/ leaf spot (Mycena citricolor, syn. Omphalia flavida),
Grafts/ Budwood/ Coffee berry disease (Colletotrichum coffeanum var.
Seedlings/ Rooted virulens), Tracheomycosis (Gibberella xylariodes, syn
cuttingsetc. Fusarium xylarioids), Powdery rust (Hemeleia
coffeicola), Phloem necrosis (Phytomonas leptovasorum)
and Coffee viruses (coffee ringspot, leaf rugosity, leaf
curl, leaf crinkle and mosaic viruses), Coffee berry borer
(Hypothenemus hampei, Sophronica ventralis) and
Coffee thrips (Diarthrothrips coffeae).
7. Date palm (Phoenix dactylifera) Seeds/Off-shoots Algeria and Morocco USA (Florida) Due to incidence of destructive pests such as: Bayood
(suckers) (Fusarium oysporum f.sp. albedinis) and Palm lethal
yellowing (Phytoplasmas)
8. Forest plant species: Seeds/ Fruits/ Grafts North America (USA and Canada) Due to incidence of destructive pests such as: Chestnut
(i) Chestnut (Castanea spp.) and other planting blight or canker (Cryphonectria (Endothia) parasitica)-
material American strain.
(ii) Elm (Ulmus spp.) Plants/planting material North America (USA and Canada) Due to incidence of destructive pests such as: Dutch elm
and Europe and Russia disease (Ceratocystis ulmi) -American and European
strains, Elm mottle virus, Elm bark beetles (Scolytidae),
Elm phloem necrosis (Phytoplasmas) and White -banded
elm leaf hopper (Scaphoidousluteolus) -vector of Elm
phloem necrosis.
(iii) Oak (Quercus spp.) Seeds/ Root United States of America Due to incidence of destructive Oak wilt (Ceratocystis
grafts fagacearum) and Oak bark beetles
(Pseudopityophthorus spp.)
47