CHAPTER II
General conditions for import
3. Permits for Import of plants, plant products etc.
(1) No plants, plant products and other regulated articles (herein after referred to as “consignment”) shall be
imported into India without complying the phytosanitary conditions stipulated under this Order. The order
shall regulate import of all plants, plant products and other articles including but not limited to seeds/grains,
pods, nuts, fruits, bulbs, tubers, corms/cormlets, rhizomes, suckers, cuttings, grafts, saplings, bud woods,
roots, rootstock, flowers, pollens, dry plant materials, timber, wood, logs, tissue culture plants, soil, earth,
clay, sand, peat/moss, live insects, microbial culture, bio-control agents, transgenic plants and genetically
modified organisms etc.,
(2) No categories of plants/plant products in respect of the plant species or variety mentioned in Schedule-
IV shall be allowed to be imported into India from the countries mentioned against each in column (4)
of the said Schedule.
(3) Every applications for a permit under this clause sha ll be made at least one month in advance to the
Issuing Authority as listed in Schedule-X, in Form PQ 01 for the import of plants and plant products for
consumption and processing and in form PQ 02 for import of seeds and plants for propagation covered
under Schedule-V, VI and VII (Deleted vide Sixth Amendment of 2016, vide S.O.2453 (E), dated 5th
July, 2016).
(4) Import of consignments of seeds of coarse cereals, pulses, oil seeds and fodder seeds and seeds/stock
material of fruit plant species for propagation shall only be permitted based on the recommendations of
EXIM Committee of Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers‟
Welfare (DAC&FW), except the trial material of the same as specified in Schedule-XII of Plant
Quarantine Order.(Omitted vide Eigth Amendment of 2024, vide S. O. 2221(E), dated 07th June,
2024 )
(5) A fee of Rs.150/- shall be payable along with the application for the import of seeds, fruits and plants
for consumption and Rs.300/- for application for the import of seeds and plants for sowing or planting
and the fee shall be payable in the form of Demand Draft payable to the Competent Authority having
jurisdiction(Deleted vide Sixth Amendment of 2016, vide S.O.2453 (E), dated 5th July, 2016).
(6) No consignment of regulated articles as referred under Clause 4, 6 & 7 shall be allowed for import unless
accompanied with an import permit issued by the authority as specified under Schedule X.
(7) (i) The Plant Protection Adviser shall, after obtaining the approval of the Central Government in the
Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare and based on International Standards
established by the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC) under Food and Agriculture
Organization, issue the guidelines for carrying out Pest Risk Analysis (PRA). No import shall be
permitted for the consignment other than those listed in Schedule-V, VI and VII unless the Pest Risk
Analysis is carried out in accordance with such guidelines and subject to such restrictions and conditions
as specified. For this purpose the importer or NPPO of exporting country shall submit an application
for PRA for import of agricultural commodities into India in form PQ 23, including the technical
information in form PQ 24 for conducting PRA to PPA or Joint Secretary (PP). The technical
information must be updated, validated and provided by National Plant Protection Organization (NPPO)
of the exporting country. The process of PRA involves the categorization of pests associated with the
commodity into quarantine pests; evaluation of their introduction potential; critical assessment of
economic and environmental impact of their introduction and spread; and specification of risk
mitigating measures against them. The completion of PRA process shall involve
7