(1) No consignment of live insects and other arthropods/nematodes/microbial cultures including
algae/bio-control agents shall be permitted into India without valid import permit issued by
competent authority as specified under Schedule-X.
(2) Every application or online application for permit to import live insects and other
arthropods/nematodes/microbial cultures including algae/bio-control agents, shall be made in the
PQ Form 12 at least thirty days in advance to Plant Protection Adviser along with a fee of Rs.
1000/- towards registration in the form of bank draft issued in favour of the Accounts Officer,
Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage, Faridabad-121001.
(3) The competent authority shall issue the permit in PQ Form 13 in triplicate, if satisfied of the
purpose for which import is made and subject to such conditions imposed thereon.
(4) All the consignments of live insects and other arthropods/nematodes/microbial cultures including
algae/bio-control agents shall be permitted only through points of entry specified under Clause
3(14). The consignment of beneficial insects shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by
National Plant Protection Organisation at the country of origin with additional declarations for
freedom from specified parasites and parasitoids and the bio-control agents free from hyper-
parasites. The consignment of beneficial insects/bio-control agents shall be subjected to Post-
entry quarantineas may be prescribed by the Plant Protection Adviser.
(5) Nothing contained in the clause shall apply to import of live insects and other
arthropods/nematodes/microbial cultures including algae/bio-control agents having no relevance
in agriculture.
8. Permit required for import of plants and plant products –
(1) No consignment of plants and plant products, if found infested or infected with a quarantine pest or
contaminated with noxious weed species shall be permitted to be imported.
(2) Every vessel carrying out bulk shipment of grains shall be inspected on board by an officer duly
authorized by Plant Protection Adviser before the same accorded permission to off-load the grain
at the notified port of entry. On inspection, if found free from quarantine pests and noxious weed
species, permission shall be accorded to off-load the grain at the port or order fumigation/treatment
of grain on board or immediately upon unloading at the port, as the case may be, before such
permission is granted for movement outside the port and subject to such conditions as imposed
thereon.
(3) The bulk shipment (s) of transgenic plants or plant products or genetically modified organisms shall
be dealt as per the provisions of the Rules for manufacture, use, import, export and storage of
hazardous micro-organisms, Genetically engineered organisms or cells made under Sections 6, 8
and 25 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (29 of 1986) or under the mechanism established
as per the provisions of Biosafety Protocol by the Ministry of Environment and Forests.
9. Requirement of Import of Wood and Timber:
(1) No consignment of timber and wood/bamboo products shall be brought into India unless such
consignment fulfils the following conditions, namely: (S.O.2286(E), dated 04.06.2018)-
(i) No consignment of timber and wood/bamboo species other than those listed under Schedule-VI
& VII shall be imported into India unless the provisions of Clause 3(7) are fulfilled.
(ii) The timber/wood with or without bark and bamboo shall be fumigated prior to export with
Methyl bromide at 48 g/m3 for 24 hrs at 210C or above or equivalent thereof or any other
treatment duly approved by the Plant Protection Adviser and the treatment shall be endorsed on
the Phytosanitary Certificate issued thereof at the country of export or re-export;
13