the visit of phytosanitary experts to the country of export to carry out pre-shipment inspections, evaluate
post–harvest treatment technologies and quarantine inspection and certification facilities. In the event
of interception of a quarantine pest in imported consignment, further import of consignments shall be
suspended until earlier PRA in respect of the consignment is reviewed and the risk mitigating measures
are evaluated.
(ii) The commodities with least phytosanitary risk which are processed to the point where the commodity
does not remain capable of being infested with quarantine pests (processed items), shall not require
Plant Quarantine clearance. (S.O.2286 (E), dated 04.06.2018)
(8) The issue of permit may be refused or withheld by the issuing authority after giving reasonable notice to
the applicant and for reasons to be recorded in writing.
(9) The Import Permit issued shall be valid for twelve months from the date of issue and valid for multiple
port access and multiple part shipments in accordance with Clause 3(14) (i) provided the exporter,
importer and country of origin are the same for the entire consignment. The issuing authority may, on
request, extend the period of validity for a further period of twelve months after charging Rs. 500/-
provided such request for extension of validity is made to the issuing authority before the expiry of the
permit with adequate reasons to be recorded in writing. Suppression of the facts or any material
information while issue of import permit is liable to be cancelled or with drawn.
(10) The import permit issued shall not be transferable and no amendments to the permit shall be issued except
for change of point of entry subject to reasons to be recorded in writing.
(11) An orange and green colour tag shall be issued in form PQ 05 in the case of permits issued for import of
seeds and plants for sowing or planting so as to facilitate the identification of consignments at the time of
their arrival at the point of entry (Deleted vide Sixth Amendment of 2016, vide S.O.2453 (E), dated
5th July, 2016).
(12) No consignment of seed or grain shall be permitted to be imported with contamination of quarantine
weeds, which are listed in Schedule-VIII unless the said consignment has been devitalized by the
exporting country and a certificate to that effect has been endorsed in the phytosanitary certificate issued
by the exporting country. Every application for quarantine inspection and clearance shall be made in
Form PQ 15.
(13) All the consignments of plants and plant products and other regulated articles shall be imported into India
only through ports of entry as specified in Schedule-I and Inland Container Depots/Container Freight
Stations and foreign post offices falling within the jurisdiction of concerned plant quarantine station
operating here under or those notified by the Government from time to time in this behalf.
(14) Points of entry for all consignments of seeds and plants for propagation and regulated articles-
(S.O.2286(E), dated 04.06.2018)
(i) (a) All consignments of seeds and plants for propagation and regulated articles such as live insects,
microbial cultures, bio-control agents, soil, growing media (with soil, peat or other organic
materials) and peat or sphagnum moss shall only be imported into India through Regional Plant
Quarantine Stations, Amritsar, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi, Bengaluru or through any
other points of entry as may be notified from time to time for this purpose, provided that import of
germplasm/ transgenic plant material and genetically modified organisms shall be permitted only
through New Delhi Airport.
(i) (a) All consignments of seeds and plants for propagation and regulated articles such as live insects,
microbial cultures, bio-control agents, soil, growing media (with soil, peat or other organic
materials) and peat or sphagnum moss shall only be imported into India through Regional Plant
Quarantine Stations, Amritsar, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi, Bengaluru, Kandla or
through any other points of entry as may be notified from time to time for this purpose, provided
that import of germplasm/ transgenic plant material and genetically modified organisms shall be
8