SCHEDULE-X
[See Clause 2 (xii) and Clause 3(3)]
List of Permit Issuing Authorities for Import of Seeds, Plants and Plant Products and other articles
S. No. Issuing Authority Jurisdiction Authorized to issue permits for
(1) (2) (3) (4)
1. Plant Protection Adviser All notified points of All kinds of plants/plant
entry materials and other items as:
insects, microbial cultures,
biocontrol agents, soil, growing
media (with soil, peat or other
organic materials), sand, peat or
sphagnum moss, similar
materials and stone etc.
2. Additional Plant Protection All notified points of All kinds of plants/plant
Adviser (PQ) entry materials and other items as:
insects, microbial cultures,
biocontrol agents, soil, growing
media (with soil, peat or other
organic materials), sand, peat or
sphagnum moss, similar
materials and stone etc.
3. Director, National Bureau New Delhi All kinds of import of plant
of Plant Genetic Resources, germplasm for public/private
New Delhi sectors/ Institutions in the
country.
4. Officer-In-Charge, Regional (i) New Delhi Airport Import of all kind of plants/ plant
Plant Quarantine Station, (ii) All Notified points of materials for sowing, planting,
New Delhi entry in Northern Zone in propagation and consumption
the States of Delhi, and other items as: soil, growing
Haryana, Himachal media (with soil, peat or other
Pradesh, J&K, Rajasthan, organic materials), sand, peat or
U.P. and Uttaranchal. sphagnum moss, similar material
and stone.
5. Officer-In-Charge, (i) Amritsar Airport Import of all kind of plants/ plant
Regional Plant Quarantine (ii) All notified points of materials for sowing, planting,
Station, Amritsar entry bordering Pakistan propagation and consumption
in the States of Punjab & and other items as: soil, growing
UT Chandigarh media (with soil, peat or other
organic materials), sand, peat or
sphagnum moss, similar material
and stone.
6. Officer-In-Charge, (i) Chennai Import of all kind of plants/ plant
Regional Plant Quarantine Airport/Seaport materials for sowing, planting,
Station , Chennai (ii) All notified points of propagation and consumption
entry in Southern Zone in and other items
331