of the Customs to Plant Quarantine Officer. The proper officer or Customs shall grant release of such
articles packed with untreated wood packaging material only after ensuring that the wood packaging
material has been appropriately treated at the poing of entry under the supervision of Plant Quarantien
Officer.
Provided that above conditions shall not be applicable to wood packaging material wholly made of
processed wood products such as ply wood, particle board, oriental strand board or veneer that have
been created using glue, heat and pressure or combination thereof. Also the above conditions shall not
be applicable to wood packaging material such as veneer peeler cores, saw dust, wood wool and shavings
and thin wood pieces (less than 6 mm thickness), unless they are found to be harboring any regulated
pests specified in this order.
Provided further that nothing contained in this clause shall be applicable to wood packaging materials
used for packaging of bona-fide passenger baggage containing goods other than plant and plant products.
(20 B) No article packed with hay or straw shall be allowed to be imported unless such hay or straw, as the
case may be is treated prior to export and the article shall accompany the treatment certificate.
Explanation: In this sub-clause, the word “treated” shall mean treated by Methyl bromidefumigation @ 48 gm/m3
for 24 hours at normal atmospheric pressure at 210C or above or equivalent thereof; or steam sterilization
under pressure 560C for 30 minutes; or any other treatment approved by the Plant Protection Adviser.
(21) No consignment packed with the packaging material specified in clause 2(xiii) of this order shall be
permitted import unless appropriately treated. The treatments shall include heat-kiln treatment at 560 C
for a minimum of 30 hrs or Methyl Bromide fumigation at 48 g/cum for 32 hours or chemical
impregnation of wood with wood preservatives such as copper chrome arsenic or any other approved
treatment as per international standards and the treatment shall be endorsed in phytosanitary certificate
(Deleted vide Third Amendment of 2004, vide S.O. 644(E), dated 31st May, 2004).
(22) No article packed with packaging materials shall be released by the proper officers of customs
unless the consignment is accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate in respect of said packing
material;
Provided that if no phytosanitary certificate is furnished in respect of said packaging material, the
proper officer of customs shall grant out of charge only after clearance is obtained from local plant
quarantine authorities, who shall grant clearance from the quarantine angle and may, if deemed fit,
subject the said packaging material to treatment at the expense of importer.
Provided further nothing contained in this clause shall be applicable to packaging materials in
respect of bonafide passenger baggage containing goods other than plants and plant
products(Deleted vide Third Amendment of 2004, vide S.O. 644(E), dated 31st May, 2004).
4. Import of soil, sand and similar material and stone shall be permitted except under the following
conditions, namely:- (revised vide S.O.2511(E), dated 10.06.2021)
(i) The consignments of soil in any form for research purpose, sand, similar materials and stone
shall be permitted through specified air or sea ports or land customs station, on application
made for that purpose. Provided an import permit shall be required for consignment of soil
in any form for research purpose, sand, similar materials and stone.
(ii) The application or online application for the purpose referred to in (i) above shall be made to
the Issuing Authority as listed in Schedule-X, at least 10 days in advance, in PQ Form 06.
11