the States of Andhra As: soil, growing media (with
Pradesh, Karnataka, soil, peat or other organic
Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uts materials), sand, peat or
A&N Islands, sphagnum moss, similar
Lakshadeep and material and stone.
Pondicherry.
7. Officer-In-Charge, (i) Kolkata Import of all kind of plants/
Regional Plant Quarantine Airport/Seaport plant materials for sowing,
Station, Kolkata (ii) All notified points of planting, propagation and
entry in Eastern Zone in consumption and other items as:
the States of Arunachal soil, growing media (with soil,
Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, peat or other organic materials),
Jharkhand, Meghalaya, sand, peat or sphagnum moss,
Manipur, Nagaland, similar material and stone.
Orissa, Sikkim, Tripura,
West Bengal and
Mizoram.
8. Officer-In-Charge, (i)Mumbai Import of all kind of plants/
Regional Plant Quarantine Airport/Seaport (ii) All plant materials for sowing,
Station, Mumbai points of entry notified in planting, propagation and
Western Zone in the consumption and other items as:
States of Goa, Gujarat, soil, growing media (with soil,
M.P., Chhatisgarh, peat or other organic materials),
Maharastra and UT sand, peat or sphagnum moss,
Dadra & Nagar Haveli, similar material and stone.
Daman & Diu.
9. Officer-In-Charge, Concerned Port of Entry Import of Plants and Plant
Plant Quarantine Station, materials for consumption and
Agartala other items (v & vi) under the
category of soil only.
10. Officer-In-Charge, Concerned Port of Entry Import of Plants and Plant
Plant Quarantine Station, materials for consumption and
Ahmedabad other items (v & vi) under the
category of soil only.
11. Officer-In-Charge, Concerned Port of Entry Import of Plants and Plant
Plant Quarantine Station, materials for consumption and
Bagdogra other items (v & vi) under the
category of soil only.
12. Officer-In-Charge, Concerned Port of Entry Import of Plants and Plant
Plant Quarantine Station, materials for consumption and
Banbasa other items (v & vi) under the
category of soil only.
13. Officer-In-Charge, Andhra Pradesh, Import of Plants and Plant
Plant Quarantine Station, Telengana and Karnataka materials for consumption and
Bengaluru all kinds of soil, growing media
(with soil, peat or other organic
materials), peat or sphagnum
moss and mushroom spawn.
332