(iii) The timber or sawn or sized wood with or without bark prior to export shall be either fumigated
as per Clause 9(2)(ii) or kiln dried at 560C for 30 minutes (core temperature of wood) or heat
treated at 560C for 30 minutes (core temperature of wood) and the treatment shall be endorsed
on the Phytosanitary Certificate issued thereof at the country of export or re- export.
(iv) Wood/Bamboo based products such as manufactured/ finished/ handicrafts/ furniture/ joinery
and articles from carpentry (windows/doors/shutters/photo frames/ curtain rods/boxes/ thatch
etc)/ conveyances (row boats, vehicle decks, trailers etc)/ garden items/house hold articles/
musical instruments/ sporting equipments/ tools/toys/flower vase/ wood fiber/ woody dry
branches without bark/ cones/baskets etc/., shall be fumigated/treated prior to
manufacturing/crafting/ finishing process etc., with methyl bromide at 48 g/m3 for 24 hrs at 210C
or above at NAP or kiln dried or heat treated at 560C for 30 minutes (core temperature of wood)
or Gamma irradiation at 25 kGray or equivalent thereof or any other treatment duly approved by
the Plant Protection Adviser and the treatment shall be endorsed on the Phytosanitary Certificate
issued thereof at the country of export or re-export;
(v) All the consignments of timber shall be inspected on board prior to unloading at the port of
arrival by an officer duly authorized by Plant Protection Adviser and, if necessary, fumigated or
treated on board before unloading:
Provided that no such inspection shall be necessary in case of containerized cargo.
(3) The containerized cargo of timber or sawn/sized wood without bark and wood/bamboo based products
shall be inspected by an authorized Plant Quarantine Officer after unloading of the containers from the
ship at the port of Container Freight Station or Inland Container Depots under the jurisdiction of
concerned Plant Quarantine Station.’
(4) The provision of this Order shall not apply to consignments of processed wood material such as
plywood, particleboard, oriental strand board or veneer that have been manufactured by using glue,
heat and pressure or combination thereof.
CHAPTER III
Special conditions of Import
10. Special conditions for import of plant species –
(1) In addition to the general conditions listed above in Chapter-II, the plant species herein after
mentioned in Schedule-V, VI and VII shall be permitted to be imported subject to such restrictions
and conditions specified in this Chapter.
(2) Every consignment of plant species herein specified in Schedule-V, VI and VII shall be accompanied
by an original Phytosanitary Certificate issued by the authorized officer at country of origin or
Phytosanitary Certificate for re-export issued by the country of re-export along with attested copy of
phytosanitary certificate from country of origin, as the case may be, with the additional declarations
being free from pests mentioned under Schedule-V and VI of this order or that the pests as specified
do not occur in the country or state of origin.
(Deleted vide S.O. 4082(E), dated 14th September, 2023).
(2) Every import consignment herein specified in Schedule-V, VI and VII shall be accompanied
by an original Phytosanitary Certificate issued by an authorized officer in the country of origin.
The Phytosanitary Certificate shall contain the additional declarations and special conditions
mentioned under Schedule-V and VI of this order (S.O. 4082(E), dated 14th September, 2023).
14