(xxiv) “post-entry quarantine” means growing of imported plants in confinement for a specified
period of time in a glass house, screen house, poly house or any other facility, or isolated field
or an off-shore island that is established in accordance with guidelines/ standards and are duly
approved and certified by an inspection authority notified under this order;
(xxv) “quarantine pest” means a pest of potential economic importance to the area endangered
thereby and not yet present there, or present but not widely distributed and being officially
controlled;
(xxix) “regulated article” means any article the import of which is regulated by this order;
(xxvi) “schedule” means a Schedule to this Order;
(xxx) “seeds” means seeds intended for sowing or propagating and not for consumption or processing;.
(xxxi) “soil” means earth, sand, clay, silt, loam, compost, manure, peat or sphagnum moss, litter, leaf
waste or any organic media that support plant life and shall include ship ballast or any organic
medium used for growing plants.
(xxxii) “timber” means a form of dead wood, log and lumber cut from plants, with or without bark or
sawn and sized, which is used for manufacturing veneer, plywood, particle or chip board and
making building material, furniture, packages, pallets, sports goods and handicrafts;.
(xxxiii) “tissue cultured plant” means any part of a plant or plant tissue or plantlet grown under aseptic
or sterile conditions in flasks or other suitable container on appropriate media and shall include
ex-agar washed plant lets;
(xxxiv) “dunnage” means wood packing material used to secure or support a commodity but which does
not remain associated with the commodity [FAO, 1009; revised ISPM Pub. No. 15, 2002]
(xxxiii) “wood packing material” means wood or wood products (excluding paper products) used in
supporting, protecting or carrying a commodity (includes dunnage) [ISPM Pub. No.15, 2002]
(xxxiv) “article” means any kind of movable property including any goods and stores consigned from
one party to another as a shipment and covered by a bill of entry of customs, shipping or airway
bill and/ or invoice in the course of international trade.
(xxxv) Animal Feed- Kibbled-crushed seeds/ pellet/ dried cake form thereby denatured and free from
weed seeds, bacterial and fungal pathogens.
(xxxvi) “Commodity” A type of plant, plant product, or other article being moved for trade or other
purpose (S.O.2286 (E), dated 04.06.2018).
(xxxvii) “Processed Items” means processed to the point where the commodity does not remain
capable of being infested with quarantine pests [ viz. Cooking (boiling, heating,
microwaving), Fermentation, Malting, Multi-Method processing (combination of heat, high
pressure, etc.) Pasteurization, Preservation in liquid, Pureeing, Sterilization, Sugar infusing and
Tenderizing] (S.O.3194 (E) dated 29.06.2018).
6