(3) The special conditions as specified under Schedule V and VI including treatment and freedom from
soil and/ or weed shall be endorsed on such Phytosanitary certificate wherever applicable.
(S.O.2286(E), dated 04.06.2018)
(Deleted vide S.O. 4082(E), dated 14th September, 2023).
(3) In cases of re-export, the consignments shall be accompanied by a Phytosanitary certificate of
re-export along with the original/ certified copy of phytosanitary certificate issued by the
country of origin. Further, all the additional declarations and special conditions mentioned
under Schedule-V and VI of this order may be fulfilled by the country of origin and endorse
them in the phytosanitary certificate issued by the country of origin (or) may also be partly/
fully fulfilled by the country of re-export and endorse them in the Phytosanitary certificate of
re-export. However, the special conditions relating to Pest Free Areas, production sites, crop
inspection and certification shall be endorsed in the phytosanitary certificate of the country of
origin (S.O. 4082(E), dated 14th September, 2023).
(4) The consignment of plants and planting material shall be imported subject to the conditions
stipulated under Clause 3(4). (S.O.2286(E), dated 04.06.2018)
CHAPTER IV
Post-entry Quarantine
11. Post-entry quarantine (Replaced vide S.O.2286(E), dated 04.06.2018)
(1) Plants and seeds, which require post-entry quarantine as laid down in Schedule V and VI of this
Order, shall be grown in Post-Entry Quarantine (PEQ) facilities duly established by importer at his
cost, approved and certified by the Inspection Authority (IA) as per the guidelines prescribed by the
Plant Protection Adviser.
(2) Nothing contained in Sub-clause (1) shall apply to the import of tissue-cultured plants that are
certified virus-free as per Schedule-V and VI, but such plants, shall be subjected to inspection at the
point of entry to ensure that the phytosanitary requirements are met with.
(3) Every application for certification of PEQ facilities shall be submitted to the Inspection Authority in
Form PQ 18. The Inspection Authority if satisfied after necessary inspection and verification of
facilities shall issue a certificate in Form PQ 19.
(4) Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage (DPPQ&S) shall carry out audit of PEQ
facilities jointly with concerned IA for its approval. The inspection will be carried out to establish
the compliance of the facility with the relevant SOP.
(5) At the time of arrival of the consignment, the importer shall produce this certificate before the
Officer-in-Charge of the Plant Quarantine (PQ) Station at the entry point along with an undertaking
in Form PQ 20.
(6) Where the Officer-in-Charge of the Regional Plant Quarantine Station, after inspection of the
consignment is satisfied, shall accord provisional clearance under PEQ on the production, by an
importer, of a certificate from the Inspection Authority with the stipulation that the plants shall be
grown in such PEQ facility for the period specified in the PQ Order.
15