(16) The importer shall be liable to pay the prescribed fee for inspection of plants in the PEQ facility as
laid down in Schedule-IX.
CHAPTER V
Appeal and Revision
12. Appeal
(1) If an importer is aggrieved by the decision of the inspection authority regarding the destruction of any
plant population, he may appeal to the Plant Protection Adviser within 7 days from the date of
communication of the decision giving the grounds of appeal.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Plant Protection Adviser to rely on the observations of the inspection authority
and such other expert opinion, as he may deem necessary, for deciding the appeal.
(3) The memorandum of appeal under sub-clause (1) shall set out the grounds in successive paragraphs
on which the decision is challenged and shall be accompanied by a bank draft in favour of the Plant
Protection Adviser and payable at Faridabad, evidencing the payment of fee of Rs. 100/-
13. Revision –
The Plant Protection Adviser may, at any time, call for the records relating to any case pending before
the inspection authority for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any decision
passed by that authority and may pass such order in relation thereto, as it thinks fit:
Provided that no such order shall be passed after the expiry of three months from the date of the
decision;
Provided further that the Plant Protection Adviser shall not pass any order prejudicial to any person,
without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
CHAPTER VI
Power of Relaxation
14. Relaxation conditions of Import Permit and Phytosanitary Certificate in certain cases –
(1) The Central Government may, in public interest, relax any of the conditions of this Order relating to
the import of any consignment. The Joint Secretary in-charge of Plant Protection in the Department
of Agriculture & Cooperation shall be the competent authority for according the relaxation. Further
the powers of relaxation has been delegated (vide DAC lt. No. 8-5/2004-PPI(pt) dated 2nd February
2005) to officers in charge of the Plant Quarantine Stations for relaxing the conditions of Import
permit and phytosanitary certificate required as per Plant Quarantine (Regulation of Import into
India) Order, 2003 as a one-time exception in favour of a single party and not for repeated violations
by that party. All second or subsequent cases of violation of requirement of Import Permit and
Phytosanitary certificate by any party shall be forwarded to Joint Secretary (Plant Protection),
Department of Agriculture & Cooperaton.
(2) In the event of grant of relaxation by competent authority, the consignment shall be released after
charging the fee for import permit and fee for plant quarantine inspection at five times of normal
rates.
(3) The provisions of this Order shall apply without prejudice to the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of
1962) or any other Acts or Order related to imports.
17