PQ Form 09
National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (ICAR)
New Delhi 110012
Permit For Import Of Germplasm /Transgenic/Genetically Modified Organisms For
Research Purpose.
Permit No. Date of issue
Valid up to
In accordance with the provisions of clause 6 (2) of the Plant Quarantine (Regulation of Import into
India) Order 2003 issued under Sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Destructive Insects & Pests Act,1914,
I hereby grant permission to import of germplasm/transgenic/genetically modified organisms herein
specified
1. Name and address of importer 2. Name and address of exporter
3. Country of origin 4. Point of Entry
5. Description of germplasm/ 6. Variety to 7. Quantity 8. No of 9. Mode of
be imported (Weight/Nos.)
organism (Botanical name)
10. The above permission is granted subject to following conditions:-
(1) The consignment of germplasm/transgenic shall be free from soil, weed species and plant debris.
(2) (i) The consignment shall be accompanied by a Phytosanitary Certificate/Phytosanitary Certificate
(re-export issued by an authorized officer in the country of origin /country of re-export) as the
casemay be with additional declaration for the freedom from:
(a)
(b)
or that the above specified pests do not occur in the country or state of origin.
(ii) Certified that the germplasm/transgenic as described above obtained from mother crop/stock
which were inspected on regular intervals by an appropriate authority in the country of origin
and found free from:
(3) The consignment shall be grown in an approved Post entry quarantine facility established by the
importer at (name of location of PEQ facility) under the supervision
of for a period of
(days/months) (Name & Address of Inspection Authority)
(4) The permit is not transferable and valid for one-time import. The permit number shall be quoted
on the phytosanitary certificate issued at the country of origin or re-export as the case may be.
Place: New Delhi Seal Name
Date: Signature
Director
National Bureau of Plant Genetics Resources
23