permitted only through New Delhi Airport (Substituted vide S.O. 4261(E) dated 27th September,
2024) .
(b) National Plant Quarantine Station, New Delhi is renamed as Regional Plant Quarantine Station, New
Delhi.
(e) Plant Quarantine Station, Bengaluru is renamed as Regional Plant Quarantine Station, Bengaluru for
import of seeds, consumption and propagating material.
(d) Plant Quarantine Station, Kandla is renamed as Regional Plant Quarantine Station, Kandla for import
of consumption materials.
(d) Plant Quarantine Station, Kandla is renamed as Regional Plant Quarantine Station, Kandla for import
of seeds, and plants for propagating and for consumption materials (Substituted vide S.O. 4261(E)
dated 27th September, 2024).
(ii) All consignments of sand in any form for industrial and non-agricultural purpose shall be
imported into India through notified sea ports under Schedule-I.
(iii) All consignments of stone (aggregated/dust) for non-agricultural purposes shall be permitted trhough
the seaport, Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar Island from Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos,
Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippinees, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. (S.O. 1728(E) dated 6th
May, 2019)
(iii) All consignments of stone (aggregated/dust) for non-agricultural purposes shall be permitted
through the seaport, Port Blair, Nancowry (Kamorta), Port Meadow of Andaman and
Nicobar Island from Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippinees,
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. (S.O. 2390(E) dated 20th July, 2020)
(15) On arrival, at the first point of entry the consignment shall be inspected by the Plant Protection Adviser
or any other officer duly authorized by him in this behalf and appropriate samples shall be drawn for
laboratory testing, in accordance with the guidelines issued by Plant Protection Adviser from time to time.
(16) The Plant Protection Adviser or the officer authorized by him may, after inspection and laboratory
testing, fumigation, irradiation, disinfection or disinfestation, as may be considered necessary by him,
accord quarantine clearance for the entry of a consignment or grant provisional clearance for growing
under post-entry quarantine, as the case may be in form PQ 16 and or order deportation or destruction
of the consignment in form PQ 17 in the event of non-compliance with the restrictions and conditions
specified in this Order.
(17) Where fumigation or disinfestation or disinfection is considered necessary in respect of a consignment
of plants, seeds and fruits the importer shall on his own and at his cost arrange for the fumigation,
disinfection or disinfestation of the consignment, through an agency approved by the Plant Protection
Adviser under the supervision of an officer duly authorized by the Plant Protection Adviser in that behalf.
“Provided that where irradiation is necessary in respect of any consignment of fresh fruits or
vegetables or other plant products, the same shall be carried out by the importer at his own cost,
at an irradiation facility, established as per the regulations of the “Atomic Energy Regulatory
Board” and duly approved by the “Plant Protection Adviser” to the Government of India (PPA)
under the International Standards established under the “International Plant Protection
Convention” and at the scheduled dosage approved by the Plant Protection Adviser under
supervision of an officer authorized by him, where necessary”
(18) It shall be the responsibility of the importer or his authorized agent –
9