(7) After according provisional release under post-entry quarantine, the Officer-in-Charge of the
Regional Plant Quarantine Station at the entry point shall inform the Inspection Authority, having
jurisdiction over the post-entry quarantine facility, of their arrival at the location where such plants
would be grown by the importer.
(8) Consignment or part thereof shall not be removed from the designated PEQ facility by way of
donation/ distribution/ sale etc. until such time the consignment is granted final clearance by Plant
Protection Adviser or the officer authorized by him.
(9) It shall be the responsibility of the importer or his agent –
(i) to intimate the Inspection Authority in advance about the date of planting of the imported plant
or seed.
(ii) not to transfer or part with or dispose the consignment during the pendency of PEQ except in
accordance with a written approval of Inspection Authority.
(iii) to permit the Inspection Authority complete access to the PEQ facility at all times and abide
by the instructions of such Inspection Authority.
(iv) to maintain an inspection kit containing all requisite items to facilitate nursery inspection and
ensure proper plant protection and upkeep of nursery records.
(v) to extend necessary facilities to the Inspection Authority during his visit to the nursery and
arrange destruction of any part or whole of plant population when ordered by him in the event
of infection or infestation by a quarantine pest, in a manner specified by him.
(10) The Inspection of the consignment in PEQ facility shall be carried out at frequent interval by IA
jointly with the nominated Officers of DPPQS. The frequency of the inspections shall be decided
considering the growing period of the consignment subject to a minimum of two inspections out of
which one inspection shall invariably at the end of PEQ period of the plant species concerned in
accordance with the guidelines issued by the Plant Protection Adviser, with a view to detect any pests
and advise necessary phytosanitary measures to contain the pests.
(11) Where the plants in the PEQ are found to be affected by pests and diseases during the specified period
the inspection authority shall: -
(i) Order the destruction of the affected consignment of whole or a part of the plant population
in the PEQ if the pest or disease is exotic, or
(ii) Advise the importer about the curative measures to be taken to the extent necessary, if the
pest or disease is not exotic and permit the release of the affected population from the PEQ
only after curative measures have been observed to be successful. Otherwise, the plants shall
be ordered to be destroyed.
(12) Where destruction of any plant population is ordered by the Inspection Authority, the importer shall
destroy the same in the manner as shall be directed by the IA and under his supervision.
(13) At the end of final inspection, the Inspection Authority shall forward a copy of the report of PEQ
inspection duly signed by him to the Plant Protection Adviser under intimation to officer-in-charge
of concerned PQ station.
(14) Final decision regarding release of the consignments shall be granted only by Plant Protection
Adviser or the officer authorized by him taking into consideration of inspection report.
(15) Proper record of each inspection visit shall be maintained by IA.
16