(iii) A fee of Rs. 1000/- shall be payable along with the application. The fee shall be payable online
or in the form of Demand Draft payable to the Competent Authority having jurisdiction.
(iv) The Competent Authority may, after scrutiny of the application, and if satisfied of the purpose,
for which such consignment is being imported, issue special permit in Form PQ
07. The import permit shall be issued subject to such restrictions and conditions prescribed
under Schedule-VI.
5. Fees for inspection, fumigation, etc.
(i) The importer of the consignment or his agent shall pay (e) Plant Protection Adviser or any other
officer duly authorized by him in this behalf, the fees prescribed in Schedule-IX towards
inspection, fumigation, disinfestation, disinfection of consignment.
(ii) In case of consignments requiring pre-shipment fumigation with MBr originating from countries
which have phased out the use of MBr for quarantine and pre-shipment purposes, the consignment
shall be released after charging the normal inspection fee. The NPPO of the country will be required
to submit relevant documents to NPPO India to establish phased out country status. NPPO India
would notify the list, which would be updated regularly based on the information received(S.O.
4871 (E), dated 13.10.2022).
6. Permits required for import of Germplasm, Transgenic or Genetically Modified Organisms
(1) No consignment of germplasm/transgenics/Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) shall be
imported into India for the purpose of agricultural research or experimentation purpose without
valid permit issued by the Director, National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, New Delhi -
110012.
Explanation: In this sub-clause, “purpose of agricultural research or the purpose of
experimentation” shall not include commercial imports which are governed by separate
guidelines issued by the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee, or as the case may be by the
Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM)”.
(2) Every application for import of plant germplasm/ transgenics/genetically modified organisms for
research/experimental purpose by the public/private organizations will be made to the Director,
National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, New Delhi in form PQ 08 and the permit shall be
issued in form PQ 09 in triplicate and a red/green tag in PQ 10 for germplasm and a Red/White
tag in PQ 11 for transgenic/Genetically Modified Organisms. Such permits for import of
transgenic/Genetically Modified Organisms shall be issued subject to the approval of Genetic
Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC) or as the case my be, the Review Committee on
Genetic Manipulation (RCGM) set- up by Department of Biotechnology under the provisions of
sub-rule (2) of rule 4 of the Rules for the manufacture, use, import, export and storage of
hazardous micro-organisms, Genetically engineered organisms or cells made under Sections 6, 8
and 25 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (29 of 1986) and subject to such restrictions
and conditions prescribed thereof.
(3) No imported consignments of plant germplasm/ transgenics/ genetically modified pests shall be
opened at the point of entry and it shall be forwarded to the Director, National Bureau of Plant
Genetic Resources, New Delhi.
7. Import of live insects and other arthropods/nematodes/microbial cultures including algae/bio-
control agents –
12