457. Musa spp. (Banana) Tissue cultured (i) Philippines Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained Commercial imports subject to
plants from mother stock tested and maintained free from prior approval of Department of
(a) Abaca mosaic virus Agriculture, Cooperation and
(b) Banana mild mosaic virus Farmers Welfare.
(Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
07th June, 2024)
(ii) Australia Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained Commercial imports subject to
(iii) Africa from mother stock tested and maintained free from prior approval of Department of
(iv) Latin America banana mild mosaic virus Agriculture, Cooperation and
(v) Thailand Farmers Welfare.
(Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
07th June, 2024)
(vi) Any country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained Commercial imports subject to
Except Philippines, from mother stock tested and maintained free from virus. prior approval of Department of
Australia, Africa, Agriculture, Cooperation and
Latin America, Farmers Welfare.
Thailand (Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
07th June, 2024)
(ii)Musa paradisiaca (Banana) (ii)Fresh fruits for Bhutan Nil Free from plant debris, weed seeds
(vide S.O. 3246(E) dated consumption and soil
20.07.2023)
458. Mushroom: (i) Frozen mushroom (i) France Free from: (i) Mushroom shall be washed with
Agaricus bisporus for consumption Soil, insects, diseases, weed seeds and contamination clean water before packing.
(Button), of other plant material. (ii) Pre-shipment freezing at -180C
Agaricus subrufescens or below for 7 days or above.
(Almond), The treatment should be
Auricularia polytricha endorsed on Phytosanitary
(Cloud Ear), Certificate issued at the country
Boletus edulis of origin/re-export.
(Porcini), (ii) Dried (i) France Free from: Fumigation with Phosphine (PH3)
Cantharellus mushroom for Soil, insects, diseases, weed seeds and contamination at 3 g/m3for 5-7 days at NAP
cibarius(Chantrelles), consumption of other plant material. The treatment should be endorsed
Craterellus cornucopioides on phytosanitary certificate issued
(Black Trumpets), at the country of origin/re-export.
200