34. Alocasia spp. Tissue cultured (i) Cook Island, Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
plants (ii) Fiji, from mother stock tested and maintained free from taro
(iii) Solomon bacilliform virus
Islands, Nil
(iv) Vanuatu
(v) Western
Samoa
(vi) Any country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
except Cook from mother stock tested and maintained free from virus
Island, Fiji,
Solomon
Nil
Islands,
Vanuatu and
Western
Samoa
35. Aloe vera (i) Plants for (i) USA Post-entry quarantine growing for a
Nil
propagation (ii) Europe period of 45 days.
(ii) Tissue cultured Any Country Certified that the tissue cultured plants obtained from
plants mother stock tested and maintained free fromviruses. Nil
36. Alpinia spp. Tissue cultured (i) Taiwan Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
plants from mother stock tested and maintained free from Nil
alpinia mosaic virus.
(ii) Any country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
except Taiwan from mother stock tested and maintained free from virus Nil
37. Alpinia galangal Vegetable for Thailand Free from Pseudococcus jackbeardsleyi (Jack beardsley
Nil
(Galanga) consumption mealybug)
38. Alpinia katsumadai Dried fruits for (i) China Free from soil and other plant debris.
Nil
consumption (ii) South-Korea
39. Alstromeria spp. (i) Plants for The Netherlands Free from: Post-entry quarantine growing for a
propagation (a) Arabis mosaic virus (hop bare-bine) period of 45 days.
(b) Freesia mosaic virus
(c) Tobacco rattle virus (spraing of potato)
(ii) Tissue cultured (i) Australia Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
plants from mother stock tested and maintained free from Nil
tomato spotted wilt virus.
(ii) UK Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
from mother stock tested and maintained free from:
Nil
(a) Arabis mosaic virus
(b) Tobacco rattle virus
(iii) Any country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
except UK, from mother stock tested and maintained free from virus. Nil
Australia
67