398. Liriodendron tulipifera (i) Timber logs with/ (i) Australia Fumigation with Methyl bromide
without bark for @ 48 g/m3 for 24 hrs. at 210C and
consumption above or equivalent thereof or heat
treatment at 560C (core
temperature) for 30 minutes or any
Nil other treatment approved by the
Plant Protection Adviser to the
Government of India.
The treatment should be endorsed
on Phytosanitary Certificate issued
at the Country of Origin/re-export.
(ii) USA Free from: Fumigation with Methyl bromide
(a) Anoplophora glabripennis (Asian longhorned @ 48 g/m3 for 24 hrs. at 210C and
beetle) above or equivalent there of or heat
(b) Orgyia leucostigma (white-marked tussock moth) treatment at 560C (core
(c) Papilio canadensis(tiger swallowtail) temperature) for 30 Minutes or any
other treatment approved by the
Plant Protection Adviser to the
Government of India
The treatment should be endorsed
on Phytosanitary Certificate issued
at the Country of Origin/re-export.
399. Litchi chinensis Stem Cuttings/ (i) Australia Free from: (i) Free from soil.
(Litchi) rooted plants (a) Carpophilus mutilates (ii) Commercial imports subject
for propagation (b) Epiphyas postvittana (apple moth) to prior approval of
(ii) China Free from: Department of Agriculture,
(a) Ceroplastes pseudoceriferus (horned wax scale) Cooperation and Farmers
(b) Peronophythora litchi (downy blossom blight)
Welfare.
(iii) Thailand
(Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
Free from: 07th June, 2024)
(a) Conopomorpha sinensis
(b) Cossus sp. (carpenter moths) (iii) Post-entry quarantine
(c) Pseudococcus jackbeardsleyi (Jack Beardsley growing for 6-9 month except
mealybug) for research.
400. Litchi chinensis and subsp. (i)Cuttings/ plants (i) Madagascar (i) Free from soil.
philippinensis for propagation (ii) Vietnam (ii) Post-entry quarantine
(Litchi) growing for a period of 6-9
months except for research.
(iii) Commercial imports subject
Nil to prior approval of
Department of Agriculture,
Cooperation and Farmers
Welfare
(Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
185