(ii) Tubers for (iv) Germany Free from: (i) Free from quarantine weed
processing (a) Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. Sepedonicus seeds, soil and other plant
(Potato ring rot) debris.
(b) Ditylenchus destructor (Potato tuber (ii) Potato tubers shall be washed
nematodes) with clean water before
(c) Ditylenchus dipsaci (Stem & bulb nematodes) packing.
(d) Globodera (Heterodera) rostochiensis (Potato (iii) Prophylactic chemical
cyst nematodes) treatment of packages and
(e) Globodera (Heterodera) pallida (Potato cyst empty container
nematodes) (iv) Points of entry for this
(f) Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Colarado potato consignment shall be as per the
beetle) Clause 3 (14), Chapter-II of
(g) Phoma exigua var. foveata (Gangrene) PQ Order, 2003.
(h) Phoma exigua var. linicola (Foot rot) (v) Zero spillage during transit
(i) Phytophthora cryptogea (Tomato foot rot) from point of entry to
(j) Polyscytalum pustulans (Skin spot of potato) processing unit. The conditions
(k) Potato mop-top virus (i) to (iii) should be endorsed
(l) Synchytrium endobioticum (Potato wart) on Phytosanitary Certificate
issued at the country of
origin/re-export.
619. Solidago spp. (i) Cuttings/ Plants (i) The Netherlands Free from: Post-entry quarantine growing for a
for propagation (a) Peridroma saucia (pearly underwing moth) period of 90 days.
(b) Rhizobium radiobacter (crown gall)
(ii) Tissue culture (i) Israel Certified that the tissue culture plants were obtained
plants from mother stock tested and maintained free from Nil
any virus
620. Sorghum spp. (Sorghum) Seeds for sowing Any Country Free from: Import except the trial material of
(a) Bacterial blight (Burkholderia andropogoni) the same crop species or variety as
(b) Bacterial leaf streak (Xanthomonas vasicola specified in Schedule XII of this
pv. Holcicola) Order subject to prior
(c) Milo disease (Periconia circinata) approval of Department of
(d) Striga weed (Striga harmonthica) Agriculture, Cooperation and
(e) Sorghum viruses viz. chlorotic spot, mosaic Farmers Welfare in the Ministry
of Agriculture.
(Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
07th June, 2024)
621. Sterculiae lychnophora Dried seeds for (i)Thailand Free from quarantine weed seeds
consumption (ii)Indonesia and soil contamination.
Nil
(iii)China
(iv)Vietnam
286