Quarantine weed seeds, soil and plant debris with clean water before packing.
The above condition shall be
endorsed on Phytosanitary
Certificate issued at the country
of origin/re-export.
78. Asparagus racemosus Roots for medicinal China Free from quarantine weeds seeds
Nil
(Satavari pili) purpose and soil.
79. Astelia spp. Tissue cultured Any Country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were
plants obtained from mother stock tested and maintained Nil
free from virus
80. Astilbe spp. (i) Tissue cultured (i) Finland Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
plants from mother stock tested and maintained free from Nil
strawberry ring spot virus
(ii) Any country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
except Finland from mother stock tested and maintained free from Nil
virus
(ii) Seeds for Europe Free from quarantine weeds
Nil
sowing seeds.
81. Avena sativa (i) Grain (seed) for (i) Australia Free from: (i)Fumigation with Methyl
(Oat) consumption (a) Cryptolestes ferrugineus (rusty grain beetle) bromide at 80 g/m3 for 48 hrs
(b) Trogoderma variabile (grain dermestid) at 210C and above or
(c) Ditylenchus dipsaci (brown ring disease of equivalent or any other
hyacinth) treatment duly approved by
(d) Ceratobasidium cereale (sharp eye spot of the Plant Protection Adviser
cereals) to the Government of India.
(e) Fusarium culmorum (culm rot:cereals) The treatment should be
(f) Monographella nivalis (foot rot: cereals) endorsed on Phytosanitary
Certificate issued at the
Country of Origin/re-export.
(ii) Free from soil and quarantine
weed seeds.
(ii) Ukraine Free from: (i) Fumigation with Methyl
(a) Cephuspygmeus (European wheat stem sawfly) bromide at 80 g/m3 for 48 hrs
(b) Diuraphis noxia (Russian wheat aphid) at 210C and above or
(c) Eurygasterintegriceps (sunn pest) equivalent or any other
(d) Haplothripstritici (wheat thrips) treatment duly approved by the
(e) Ostrinia nubilalis (European maize borer) Plant Protection Adviser to the
(f) Ditylenchus dipsaci (stem and bulb nematode) Government of India. The
(g) Monographella nivalis (foot rot of ereals) treatment should be endorsed
(h) Pseudomonassyringae pv.atrofaciens (basal: on Phytosanitary Certificate
wheat glume rot) issued at the Country of
(i) Barley stripe mosaic virus (stripe mosaic of Origin/re-export.
barley) (ii) Free from soil and quarantine
(j) Wheat streak mosaic virus (wheat viruses 6 and 7) weed seeds.
79