517. Phlox spp. Seeds for sowing (i) Europe Free from: (i) Free from soil and
(Phlox) (ii) USA (a) Ditylenchus dipsaci (Brown ring disease of quarantine weed seeds.
(iii) Japan hyacinth) (ii) Crop inspection and
(iv) Australia (b) Tobacco rattle virus (Spraing of potato). certification for free from
tobacco rattle virus.
(ii) Europe Free from soil and quarantine
Nil
weed seeds.
518. Phoenix spp. Seeds for Any country (Except Free from quarantine weeds seeds
sowing from African, and soil contamination.
American,
Caribbean,
Nil
Philippines
And Soloman
Island countries)
519. Phoenix dactylifera (i) Suckers/Plants Any Country Free from: (i) Import subject to prior
(Date palm) for planting (a) Bayood (Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. albedinis) approval of Department of
(b) Palm lethal yellowing (Phytoplasmas) Agriculture, Cooperation and
(c) Texas root rot (Phymatotrichum omnivorum) Farmers Welfare in the
(d) American palm weevil (Rhyncophorus Ministry of Agriculture.
palmarum) (Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
07th June, 2024)
(ii) Post-entry quarantine for a
period of one year.
(ii) Tissue cultured Any Country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
plants for from mother stock tested and maintained free from Nil
propagation virus.
(iii) Fresh/Dry fruits Any Country Free from Palm kernel borer (Pachymerus lacerdae) Fumigation with Methyl bromide
for consumption @ 16 g/m3 for 24 hrs at 210C and
above under NAP and the
treatment shall be endorsed on
Phytosanitary Certificate or by
any other fumigant/substance in
the manner approved by the Plant
Protection Adviser.
520. Phormium spp. (i) Tissue cultured Any Country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
plants from mother stock tested and maintained free from Nil
virus.
(ii) Plants for Australia Post-entry quarantine growing for
Nil
propagation a period of 45 days.
521. Phyllostachys spp. (i) Seeds for (i) Thailand Free from quarantine weed seeds.
Nil
(Bamboo) sowing (ii) China
(i) Stem cuttings/ China Free from: Post-entry quarantine growing for
saplings for (a) Top blight (Ceratosphaeria phyllostachydis) a period of 45 days.
228