(vi) Any country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
except Japan, from mother stock tested and maintained free from
Nil
Israel, Kenya, virus.
South Africa, USA
487. Oryza sativa (Rice) (i) Grains for Any Country Free from Granary weevil (Sitophilus granarius) Fumigation with Methyl bromide
consumption @ 32 g/m3 at 210C and above for
24 hrs under NAP and the treatment
to be endorsed on Phytosanitary
Certificate or by any other
fumigant/substance in the manner
approved by the Plant
Protection Adviser for this purpose.
(ii) Fortified rice China Free from: Fumigation with Methyl bromide
kernel for (a) Trogoderma variabile (Grain dermestid) @ 32 g/m3 at 210C and above for 24
consumption (b) Typhaea stercorea (Hairy fungus beetle) hrs under normal atmospheric
(c) Monographella nivalis (Foot rot of cereals) pressure (NAP) and the treatment
to be endorsed on Phytosanitary
Certificate.
488. Osteospermum spp. Tissue cultured plants Any Country Certified that the tissue cultured plants were obtained
Nil
from mother stock tested and maintained free from virus.
489. Pachira insignis Plants for Australia, Thailand Nil (i) Post-entry quarantine growing
propagation USA Free from Steirastoma breve (Cacao beetle) for a period of 4-6 months
(ii) Free from soil.
(iii) Commercial imports subject to
prior approval of Department
of Agriculture, Cooperation
and Farmers Welfare
(Omitted vide Gazette
Notification S.O. 2221(E) dated
07th June, 2024)
490. Paeonia suffruticosa Plants/ Cuttings for Netherlands (i) Free from soil.
(Peonia) propagation Nil (ii) Post-entry quarantine for a
growing period of 6-9 months.
491. Panax quinquefolius Seeds for sowing USA Free from Nectria radicicola (Black root) Freedom from quarantine weeds
(Ginseng) seeds.
492. Pandanus spp. Vegetable (leaves) Thailand
Nil Nil
(Pandanus) for consumption
493. Panicum spp. Germplasm material (i) Brazil Free from soil and quarantine
for research only (ii) China weed seeds
(iii) Kenya Nil
(iv) Nepal
(v) USA
211