against Blueberry fruit fly.
The treatment should be
endorsed on Phytosanitary
Certificate issued at the
Counigin/re-export.
(ii) Chile Free from:- Fumigation with Methyl
(a) Spodoptera eridania (Southern armyworm) bromide @ 32 g/m3 for 2 hrs @
(Cranberry) (b) Spodoptera frugiperda (Fall armyworm) 210C and above or equivalent
(c) Diaporthe vaccinii (Phomopsis twig blight of thereof or any other treatment
blueberry) duly approved by the Plant
(d) Tomato ringspotvirus (ringspot of Protection Adviser to the Govt. of
tomato) India.
The treatment should be endorsed
on Phytosanitary Certificate
issued at the country of origin/ re-
export.
(iii) Chile Free from: (i) Pest free area status for
(a) Spodoptera eridania (Southern armyworm) Ceratitis capitata (Mediterranean
[Vaccinium (b) Spodoptera frugiperda (Fall armyworm) fruit fly) as per international
corymbosum (c) Diaporthe vaccinii (Phomopsis twig blight of Standards.
(Blueberry)] blueberry) Or
(d) Tomato ringspot virus (ringspot of tomato) b) Methyl bromide fumigation
(S.O. 3141 (E), @ 32 g/m3 for 2 hrs at 210C
dated 29th * In case if MB fumigation or in-transit cold or above at NAP or
August, 2019) treatment options are used instead of PFA for equivalent thereof against
Mediterranean fruit fly, then ADR for Mediterranean fruit fly.
Ceratitiscapitata must be included. Or
c) In transit cold treatment of
**If any non-compliance is detected, the consignment 00C or below for 10 days;
will be dealt as per the relevant provisions of Plant 0.550C or below for 11days,
Quarantine Order, 2003. NPPO, India also reserves 1.10C or below for 12 days.
the right to review the conditions if violations of the
The treatment should be
conditions are observed.
endorsed on phytosanitary
Certificate issued at the Country
of Origin/re-export.
(iv)Australia Free from: i. Pest free area status for
a) Aspidiotus nerii (Aucuba scale) Bactrocera tryoni
b) Bactrocera tryoni (Queensland fruit fly) (Queensland fruit fly) as per
c) Guignardia vaccinii (Berry speckle) international standards; or
d) Pseudomonas viridiflava(Bacterial leaf blight of ii. Methyl bromide fumigation
tomato (USA)) @ 32 g/ m3 for 2 hrs at 210C
or above under NAP; or
Free from: Methyl bromide fumigation
@ 32 g/ m3 for 31/ hrs at
a) Aspidiotus nerii (Aucuba scale) 2
278